# Web Development Bootcamp Projects

Welcome to my repository tracking projects and learnings from **The Complete Web Development Bootcamp** by **Angela Yu**. This repository contains various projects and exercises I have completed while taking the course, focusing on web development technologies.

course Link :- **https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-web-development-bootcamp/?couponCode=NVDIN35**

## Course Overview

This course covers a wide range of topics, including but not limited to:

- HTML
- CSS
- JavaScript
- Boostrap
- Node.js
- Express.js
- Database and SQL
- PostgreSQL
- EJS
- Axios
- React
- Authorization

## Projects

Here’s a list of projects included in this repository, For any of the mentioned project cd over to Projects directory :- 

1. **Project: BlogNest**
   - Description: A blog writing website that allows users to create, edit, and save blogs seamlessly. Users can easily add new     blog posts and manage their content. Login features will be implemented in future updates.
   - Technologies Used: EJS, Node.js, Express.js, Bootstrap, Axios
   - Repository URL: https://github.com/coderaark12/Blog-API-Project.git


2. **Project: Band Name Generator**
   - Description: A Band Generator project that allows users to generate unique band names and choose their favorite from the list. This fun and interactive tool is perfect for musicians and music enthusiasts looking for creative inspiration.
   - Technologies Used: EJS, Node.js, Express.js, Bootstrap
   - Repository URL: https://github.com/coderaark12/Band-Name-Generator.git


3. **Project: QR Code Generator**
   - Description: A QR Code Generator that allows users to input a URL and generates a corresponding QR code. This user-friendly tool makes it easy to create scannable codes for quick access to websites and resources.
   - Technologies Used: Node.js, Express.js, Bootstrap, npm modules such as :- inquirer, qr-image.
   - Repository URL: https://github.com/coderaark12/QR-Code-Generator.git


4. **Project: Simon Game**
   - Description: A classic Simon Game where players must repeat a sequence of colors and sounds generated by the game. The game tests memory and concentration, making it a fun and challenging experience for players of all ages.
   - Technologies Used: HTML, JS, Bootstrap
   - Repository URL: https://github.com/coderaark12/Simon-Game.git


5. **Project: Drum Kit**
   - Description: A Drum Kit project that allows users to play various drum sounds by clicking on drum icons or by using their keyboard. This interactive application provides an engaging way for users to create their own beats and enjoy music-making.
   - Technologies Used: EJS, Node.js, Express.js, Bootstrap, Axios
   - Repository URL: https://github.com/coderaark12/Simple-Drum-Game.git


6. **Project: Family Travel Tracker**
   - Description: A Family Travel Tracker that allows users to keep track of the countries visited by each family member. Users can add family members and record the countries they have visited, making it easy to document travel experiences over time.
   - Technologies Used: EJS, Node.js, Express.js, Bootstrap, postgres
   - Repository URL: https://github.com/coderaark12/Family-Travel-Tracker.git


7. **Project: To-Do App**
   - Description: A To-Do App that allows users to manage their tasks by adding, editing, and deleting items. This application is linked to a database, enabling users to save their tasks and access them across sessions, making it an effective tool for productivity and organization.
   - Technologies Used: EJS, Node.js, Express.js, Bootstrap, postgres
   - Repository URL: https://github.com/coderaark12/Todo-App.git

8. **Project: Joke-Time**
   -  Description: A project that integrates a free public API to fetch different jokes based on various joke types. Users can explore a variety of humor styles and enjoy a good laugh with every interaction.
   - Technologies Used: EJS, Node.js, Express.js, Bootstrap, axios
   - Repository URL: https://github.com/coderaark12/Joke-Time.git

9. **Project: Booklytic**
   - Description: A website containing reviews of hundreds of books, where users can write, edit, and delete their reviews, as well as purchase books and view their ratings. The project utilizes complex APIs, such as the Google Books API, to fetch and display data.
   -  Technologies Used: EJS, Node.js, Express.js, Bootstrap, Axios, Google Books API, brypt(for encryption)
   - Repository URL: https://github.com/coderaark12/Booklytic.git

- Projects are still in development and will be updated soon.


## Learning Outcomes

Throughout this course, I have gained knowledge and experience in:

- Building responsive web applications.
- Understanding the fundamentals of web development.
- Working with databases using PostgreSQL.
- Deploying applications and managing server-side code.

## How to Use This Repository

1. Clone the repository to your local machine:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/your-repo-name.git

2. Initialize and update the submodules:
    ``` bash
    git submodule update --init 

3. Install the dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install

4. Start the server
   ```bash
   nodemon <serverFileName.js>

## Acknowledgments

A special thanks to Angela Yu for her excellent teaching and engaging course materials.

